README.md, before:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT">
    <img src="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/image/HureIT_Banner.png" alt="HureIT">
  </a>
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues">Request Feature</a>
   <br />
 <br />
</p>

## About This Project

HureIT is the HR application built as Modular Monolith, written in .NET Core 5.0. Each module is a separate vertical slice with its own custom architecture, typically hexagonal or onion, and the overall integration between the modules is mostly based on the event-driven approach to achieve greater autonomy between the modules.

## Modular Architecture

Modular Architecture is a software design in which a monolith is made better and modular with the importance of reusing components / modules. The same implemented in HureIT helps to be extended to support and operate with n-modules.

### PRO

-   Clear Separation of Concerns
-   Easily Scalable
-   Lower complexity compared to Microservices
-   Low operational / deployment costs.
-   Reusability
-   Organized Dependencies

### CONTRA

-   Not Multi-technology compatible.
-   Horizontal Scaling can be a concern. But this can be managed via load balancers.
-   nce Interprocess Communication is used, messages may be lost during Application Termination. Microservices combat this ise by using external messaging brokers like Kafka, RabbitMQ.
-   We can make use of message agents but no, let's keep it simple.

## Technology Stack

-   API - ASP.NET Core 5.0 WebAPI
-   Data Access - [Entity Framework Core 5.0][coredownload-url]
-   DB Providers - MSSQL SERVER
-   Client - Angular 12 Material

## Features & Plus

-   [ ] Modular Architecture
-   [ ] Built on .NET 5.0
-   [ ] Follows Clean Architecture Principles
-   [ ] Domain Driven Design
-   [ ] Flexible Repository Pattern
-   [ ] Entity Framework Core
-   [ ] Auto DB Migrations
-   [ ] Dapper Integration
-   [ ] AutoMapper
-   [ ] Fluent Validations
-   [ ] CQRS using MediatR
-   [ ] Middlewares
-   [ ] Hangfire
-   [ ] Custom Errors
-   [ ] Serilog Integration
-   [ ] In-Memory Database
-   [ ] Paginated API Responses
-   [ ] User & Role Based Permission
-   [ ] Identity Seeding
-   [ ] Database Seeding
-   [ ] JWT Authentication
-   [ ] HTTP Interceptor
-   [ ] CRUD Operations
-   [ ] Custom EventLogs
-   [ ] API Versioning
-   [ ] Email Service
-   [ ] File Upload
-   [ ] Export Excel
-   [ ] Docker Support

## Project Status

-   API - `In Progress`
-   Angular/UI - `Coming Soon!`
-   Docker - `Coming Soon!`

## Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET 5 SDK][dotnetdownload-url]
2. Install the latest DOTNET & EF CLI Tools by using this command:

```
 dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
```

3. Install the [Visual Studio][vsdownload-url] IDE 2022(v17.0.0 and above) OR [Visual Studio Code][vscodedownload-url].
4. Install the latest [Docker on Windows][dockerwininstall-url].
5. It's recommended to use MsSql Server Database as it comes by default with HureIT.

## Getting Started

To get started, let's follow this short instruction routine:

-   Download ZIP
-   Extract solution to selected directory
-   Open the solution `HureIT.sln` with Visual Studio or the directory with VSCode

## Running the API

-   Open PowerShell `HureIT/compose` directory and execute:

```
docker-compose -f infrastructure.yml up -d
```

Note: It will start the required infrastructure in the background.

-   Browse to http://localhost:5341/#/events?autorefresh to Seq Logs!.

Then you can continue the list listed below:

1. Open up `HureIT.sln` in VS2022.
2. Navigate to appSettings.json under `src/Host/Api/appsettings.json`
3. Add you MsSql connection string under `PersistenceSettings`. The default connection string:
   `"mssql": "Data Source=.;Initial Catalog=HureDB;Integrated Security=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=True"`
4. That is all you need to configure the API. Just create and run the API project.
5. By default, the database is migrated. Take a look at the [migrations][migrations-url] of the solution
6. Some default data is also included in this database, such as roles, users, owners, properties, images etc.
7. Browse to https://localhost:5001/ to Api HureIT!

## Default Roles & Credentials

As soon you build and run your application, default users and roles get added to the database.

Default Roles are as follows.

-   `Administrator`
-   `Staff`

Here are the credentials for the default users.

-   Email - admin@hureit.com / Pass: @AdminP4$$w0rd#
-   Email - vlad@hureit.com / Pass: @BasicP4$$w0rd#

You can use these credentials to generate JWT tokens in the `api/identity/tokens` endpoint.

## HTTP requests can be sent to the API?

-   You can find the list of all HTTP requests in [HureIT.Postman][postmancollection-url], file placed in the directory `HureIT\postman`.
-   This file is compatible with [Postman][postmandownload-url] and easily edited with [Visual Studio Code][vscode-url].

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, create, and inspire. Any contribution you make is **greatly appreciated**.

Join the elite list!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/IncredibleFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some IncredibleFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/IncredibleFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request.

<a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vladperchi/HureIT" />
</a>

## Core Developer Contact

-   Twitter - [Vladimir][twitter-vlad-url]
-   Twitter - [Code With Vladperchi][twitter-code-url]
-   Linkedin - [Vladimir][linkedin-url]
-   GitHub - [Vladperchi][github-url]

## License

This project is licensed with the [MIT License][license-url].

## Support

Has this Project helped you learn something New? or Helped you at work?
Here are a few ways by which you can support.

-   Leave a star! :star:
-   Recommend this awesome project to your colleagues
-   Do consider endorsing me on LinkedIn for ASP.NET Core - [Connect via LinkedIn][linkedin-url]
-   Or, If you want to support this project in the long run, [consider buying me a coffee][buymeacoffee-url]!

<br />

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codewithvlad"><img width="250" alt="black-button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455818/138557309-27587d91-7b82-4cab-96bb-90f4f4e600f1.png" ></a>

[vsdownload-url]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/es/vs/community/
[vscodedownload-url]: https://code.visualstudio.com
[postmandownload-url]: https://www.postman.com/downloads/
[postmancollection-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/postman/HureIT.Postman.json
[dockerwininstall-url]: https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/
[coredownload-url]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/
[azuredatastudio-url]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/download-azure-data-studio?view=sql-server-ver15
[dotnetdownload-url]: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/5.0
[structure-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/md/api-project-structure.md
[migrations-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/md/api-migrations-guide.md
[build-shield]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Factions-badge.atrox.dev%2Fvladperchi%2FHureIT%2Fbadge&style=flat-square
[build-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/actions
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/vladperchi/HureIT.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[forks-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vladperchi/HureIT.svg?style=flat-square
[stars-url]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/LICENSE
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vladperchi/
[github-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/
[blog-url]: https://www.codewithvladperchi.com
[facebook-url]: https://www.facebook.com/codewithvladperchi
[twitter-code-url]: https://www.twitter.com/codewithvlad
[twitter-vlad-url]: https://www.twitter.com/vladperchi
[buymeacoffee-url]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codewithvlad

Commit message:

docs(DEV): Added Solution Structure detail

README.md, after:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT">
    <img src="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/image/HureIT_Banner.png" alt="HureIT">
  </a>
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues">Request Feature</a>
   <br />
 <br />
</p>

## About This Project

HureIT is the HR application built as Modular Monolith, written in .NET Core 5.0. Each module is a separate vertical slice with its own custom architecture, typically hexagonal or onion, and the overall integration between the modules is mostly based on the event-driven approach to achieve greater autonomy between the modules.

## Solution structure

Modular Architecture is a software design in which a monolith is made better and modular with the importance of reusing components / modules. The same implemented in HureIT helps to be extended to support and operate with n-modules.

`Host`
Web application responsible for initializing and starting all the modules - loading configurations, running DB migrations, exposing public APIs etc.

`Modules`
Autonomous modules with the different set of responsibilities, highly decoupled from each other - there's no reference between the modules at all (such as shared projects for the common data contracts), and the synchronous communication & asynchronous integration (via events) is based on local contracts approach.

-   Identity: Management of users/identity (register, login, permissions etc.).
-   Workflow: Management of employees, permissions and types of permissions (create, complete, verify, search).

`Shared`
The set of shared components for the common abstractions & cross-cutting concerns. This Cross-cutting concerns would use interfaces/events. And yes, domain events are also included in the project using the Mediatr Handler. Each of the modules follows a clean / Onion / Hex architecture design.

### PRO

-   Clear Separation of Concerns
-   Easily Scalable
-   Lower complexity compared to Microservices
-   Low operational / deployment costs.
-   Reusability
-   Organized Dependencies

### CONTRA

-   Not Multi-technology compatible.
-   Horizontal Scaling can be a concern. But this can be managed via load balancers.
-   nce Interprocess Communication is used, messages may be lost during Application Termination. Microservices combat this ise by using external messaging brokers like Kafka, RabbitMQ.
-   We can make use of message agents but no, let's keep it simple.

Take a look in detail at the [structure][structure-url] of the solution

## Technology Stack

-   API - ASP.NET Core 5.0 WebAPI
-   Data Access - [Entity Framework Core 5.0][coredownload-url]
-   DB Providers - MSSQL SERVER
-   Client - Angular 12 Material

## Features & Plus

-   [ ] Modular Architecture
-   [ ] Built on .NET 5.0
-   [ ] Follows Clean Architecture Principles
-   [ ] Domain Driven Design
-   [ ] Flexible Repository Pattern
-   [ ] Entity Framework Core
-   [ ] Auto DB Migrations
-   [ ] Dapper Integration
-   [ ] AutoMapper
-   [ ] Fluent Validations
-   [ ] CQRS using MediatR
-   [ ] Middlewares
-   [ ] Hangfire
-   [ ] Custom Errors
-   [ ] Serilog Integration
-   [ ] In-Memory Database
-   [ ] Paginated API Responses
-   [ ] User & Role Based Permission
-   [ ] Identity Seeding
-   [ ] Database Seeding
-   [ ] JWT Authentication
-   [ ] HTTP Interceptor
-   [ ] CRUD Operations
-   [ ] Custom EventLogs
-   [ ] API Versioning
-   [ ] Email Service
-   [ ] File Upload
-   [ ] Export Excel
-   [ ] Docker Support

## Project Status

-   API - `In Progress`
-   Angular/UI - `Coming Soon!`
-   Docker - `Coming Soon!`

## Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET 5 SDK][dotnetdownload-url]
2. Install the latest DOTNET & EF CLI Tools by using this command:

```
 dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
```

3. Install the [Visual Studio][vsdownload-url] IDE 2022(v17.0.0 and above) OR [Visual Studio Code][vscodedownload-url].
4. Install the latest [Docker on Windows][dockerwininstall-url].
5. It's recommended to use MsSql Server Database as it comes by default with HureIT.

## Getting Started

To get started, let's follow this short instruction routine:

-   Download ZIP
-   Extract solution to selected directory
-   Open the solution `HureIT.sln` with Visual Studio or the directory with VSCode

## Running the API

-   Open PowerShell `HureIT/compose` directory and execute:

```
docker-compose -f infrastructure.yml up -d
```

Note: It will start the required infrastructure in the background.

-   Browse to http://localhost:5341/#/events?autorefresh to Seq Logs!.

Then you can continue the list listed below:

1. Open up `HureIT.sln` in VS2022.
2. Navigate to appSettings.json under `src/Host/Api/appsettings.json`
3. Add you MsSql connection string under `PersistenceSettings`. The default connection string:
   `"mssql": "Data Source=.;Initial Catalog=HureDB;Integrated Security=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=True"`
4. That is all you need to configure the API. Just create and run the API project.
5. By default, the database is migrated. Take a look at the [migrations][migrations-url] of the solution
6. Some default data is also included in this database, such as roles, users, owners, properties, images etc.
7. Browse to https://localhost:5001/ to Api HureIT!

## Default Roles & Credentials

As soon you build and run your application, default users and roles get added to the database.

Default Roles are as follows.

-   `Administrator`
-   `Staff`

Here are the credentials for the default users.

-   Email - admin@hureit.com / Pass: @AdminP4$$w0rd#
-   Email - vlad@hureit.com / Pass: @BasicP4$$w0rd#

You can use these credentials to generate JWT tokens in the `api/identity/tokens` endpoint.

## HTTP requests can be sent to the API?

-   You can find the list of all HTTP requests in [HureIT.Postman][postmancollection-url], file placed in the directory `HureIT\postman`.
-   This file is compatible with [Postman][postmandownload-url] and easily edited with [Visual Studio Code][vscode-url].

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, create, and inspire. Any contribution you make is **greatly appreciated**.

Join the elite list!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/IncredibleFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some IncredibleFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/IncredibleFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request.

<a href="https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vladperchi/HureIT" />
</a>

## Core Developer Contact

-   Twitter - [Vladimir][twitter-vlad-url]
-   Twitter - [Code With Vladperchi][twitter-code-url]
-   Linkedin - [Vladimir][linkedin-url]
-   GitHub - [Vladperchi][github-url]

## License

This project is licensed with the [MIT License][license-url].

## Support

Has this Project helped you learn something New? or Helped you at work?
Here are a few ways by which you can support.

-   Leave a star! :star:
-   Recommend this awesome project to your colleagues
-   Do consider endorsing me on LinkedIn for ASP.NET Core - [Connect via LinkedIn][linkedin-url]
-   Or, If you want to support this project in the long run, [consider buying me a coffee][buymeacoffee-url]!

<br />

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codewithvlad"><img width="250" alt="black-button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455818/138557309-27587d91-7b82-4cab-96bb-90f4f4e600f1.png" ></a>

[vsdownload-url]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/es/vs/community/
[vscodedownload-url]: https://code.visualstudio.com
[postmandownload-url]: https://www.postman.com/downloads/
[postmancollection-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/postman/HureIT.Postman.json
[dockerwininstall-url]: https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/
[coredownload-url]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/
[azuredatastudio-url]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/download-azure-data-studio?view=sql-server-ver15
[dotnetdownload-url]: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/5.0
[structure-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/md/api-project-structure.md
[migrations-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/resources/md/api-migrations-guide.md
[build-shield]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Factions-badge.atrox.dev%2Fvladperchi%2FHureIT%2Fbadge&style=flat-square
[build-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/actions
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/vladperchi/HureIT.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[forks-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vladperchi/HureIT.svg?style=flat-square
[stars-url]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/vladperchi/HureIT?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/HureIT/blob/master/LICENSE
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=flat-square&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vladperchi/
[github-url]: https://github.com/vladperchi/
[blog-url]: https://www.codewithvladperchi.com
[facebook-url]: https://www.facebook.com/codewithvladperchi
[twitter-code-url]: https://www.twitter.com/codewithvlad
[twitter-vlad-url]: https://www.twitter.com/vladperchi
[buymeacoffee-url]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codewithvlad
